hey guys we just did the least lit
livestream ever from Mancha Airport and
our live streaming audience bullied us
into watching the latest video from a
natural vegan which is a response to
Evelyn's generation which is a response
to the fact that this guy calls himself
vegan but he does eat meat once in a
while so maybe he is in fact a freegan
or a reduced area or what-have-you right
well it's a good jump in at any time I
have very very little to say about this
matter
as always I'm really kind of just
disappointed in the intellectual caliber
of what a natural beacon has to say
about this she behaves as if there's
some kind of theoretically sophisticated
point to be made here and I just don't
feel that there is whenever we get into
I think shades of grey territory with
veganism one of the useful rhetorical
devices is to compare this to what
questions would you be asking about
cannibalism no I mean that sincerely I
don't mean that in like a caddy shallow
down-to-earth way here's a really good
here's a really good parallel to bring
animals paraben totally not comparable
in any way but we can call it a
parallelism you know mod vegan was
asking me by email showed it to Margaret
mod vegan under the youtuber she emailed
me asking my position on flesh created
in a laboratory like you know that
through modern brand new biotechnology
saying this on live stream the other day
my aunts sent me a link to Memphis meats
right and she said Melissa
check this out you can eat meat again
right I was just like well no like yeah
at some point in the future you'll be
able to wait she never won is just
disgusting health-wise you know what you
but yours my boy in terms of a quick way
to deal with this in terms of rhetoric
this is rhetoric as opposed to
philosophy how we talk about these
things well if you could create human
flesh in a laboratory into that would
you engage in cannibalism so that would
be victimless cannibalism yeah you know
now I agree if you have created human
flesh in a laboratory through this kind
of technology cloning technology or
biotechnology uh what are the actual
cultured meat this kind of thing I
certainly agree ethically it's
completely different from murdering
someone to make unanimity eat them you
know it is different but on another on
the other night of course
still cannibalism so I think it is in
exactly that way I think it's useful to
you know we'll bring to the schematics I
don't have a total moral opposition to
people eating cows sorry
fake cow meat created in a vat in a
laboratory through biotech you know I
understand that is something very
different however I would never do it
and I can't imagine any compelling
argument why I should do it you know
there's in terms of human health and in
terms of so many things and also you
know I don't know why people are so
contentious to this issue of finding
something disgusting I think in many
cases we find things disgusting for a
reason not maybe not all cases but if I
say to you would you eat a human arm
that was produced in a laboratory a
human arm with fingernails and bone and
everything is pulled out of a vat its
cultured meat it was never part of a
living person this person wasn't born
and they weren't died they might say oh
that's disgusting
well we can examine that why do they
find disgusting is it for absolutely no
reason is this something completely
irrational or is the argument to the
contrary rational but sure I mean
obviously it's going to be progress for
the vegan movement when we can detach
the production of meat from the
slaughter of animals that's going to be
an unbelievable change in human
civilization and of course I welcome it
but on the other hand if you talk about
my personal ethics and my personal
identity one of the reasons why I don't
eat meat is because I don't want to be
the kind of person to eat its meat I'm
gonna gonna come back to that just a
minute here one of the reasons why I
don't engage in cannibalism because I
don't want to be a cannibal you know
this actually has some significance even
if it's a victimless crime even if
you're you're eating human flesh she
didn't kill someone or even if the
person gave their consent to be eaten
after their death and they then died of
natural causes which actually there is a
legal precedent for I remember reading
about a case going through the courts
where a person agreed to be eaten you
know the way they explicitly arranged
I'm sorry this is life on Earth in 21st
century if you google it I'm sure you
can find a bunch obvious probably not
unique probably there have been several
courses cases in the in the court that
way right so I think there still is
something significant about refusing to
be a cannibal unless you're in one of
those desert island scenarios unless
your airplane is crashed in the Hebrides
and
we all know there are those bizarre
scenarios where it's cannibalism or
death but even then we probably have to
ask ourselves whether or not cannibalism
is a fate worse than death so look I
just say in general I think the
comparison of cannibalism is often a
useful way to frame the discussion if
and when you get into an apparent gray
area about veganism so in this case
there's I think a fake gray area created
about veganism defined in terms of
whether or not you pay for the food now
I do think that paying for food is
significant significant economically and
morally and personally I do feel very
differently about it I mean the other
day we ate dinner with some of my bosses
and my employers and co-workers and they
were paying for their own food and they
paid for me I would feel very
differently about it if I were the one
paying for that meal like a croute meal
of people I would refuse to buy meat for
other people and I have been put in that
position where people expect you to you
know and it's it's it's rough there's a
big it's not nice it's not great to tell
your boss no I'm not gonna pay for your
meal you know sir this isn't China but
it could be similar in Western culture
no I'm not gonna buy it's actually I
think it's immoral for me because you
ordered meat you know so you know those
are those articles you read so I'm not
gonna say that the question of paying
for something or not paying for
something is of trivial significant so
that it's irrelevant
it is of some significance but again in
the same way that I think this question
of cannibalism is still of some
significance even if the arm comes out
of out of that you know um you know this
question of eating meat one of the
reasons why I don't eat meat is because
I want to be the kind of person who
refuse do you mean one of the reasons
why I live my life in a kind of simple
morally consistent way is because I
don't want to be inconsistent and that's
most of what they get into where they
start to pretend this is something
theoretically sophisticated is to get
into these sorts of acquitted ease of
well in this scenario would you do X or
Y you're sitting at a dinner table with
other people and they ordered meat and
the meat will go to waste the meat will
go into the garbage
would you prefer to eat that meat rather
than see it go to waste for the garbage
this kind of thing well then you're a
person who's making a bunch of complex
excuses for what could be a very simple
moral position you know
I've said this a long time ago in a lot
of context in real life cooperation and
work with your your friends and
colleagues what we mean by sanity is
often very close to reliability with
another person's reliable well not you
can count on them you know that counts
for a lot that matters a lot you know
and it's very close to us on the saying
being someone who's reliable and I don't
even mean accountable but someone whose
morality makes sense to the society
around you it makes sense to yourself
it's coherent it doesn't have these
kinds of exceptions that's that's worth
something to me you know so anyway sorry
I from my perspective there is nothing
complex about this I guess the illusion
is that there's something immoral about
rotten meat being put in a dumpster and
I don't see it that way at all like to
me that would be the same as justifying
cannibalism by claiming there's
something immoral but a human corpse
being buried in the earth and thus going
to waste as opposed to being eaten I
don't see it as immoral to put expired
cheese in the dumpster put expired
cheese in the dumpster that's where it
belongs yeah I don't think you're doing
something morally positive by rescuing
that cheese from the dumpster or by
rescuing meat from going into the
dumpster in the same sense I don't think
you're doing so morally positive by
rescuing a corpse in the burial ground
and engaging in cannibalism although
that also could be justified as having
some kind of positive ecological benefit
as avoiding food waste as avoiding
greenhouse gas emissions and all these
other things that people have kind of
thrown in to complicate the matter yeah
I know our natural vegan made the point
that
Edwin's generation it should be praised
because I want to eat decides not to
most of the time and I don't see that
you know this comparison is useful like
what if somebody wanted to eat human
flesh but because they know what's wrong
they decide not to should we be praising
them should we really really yeah I mean
you know obviously comparisons are
odious but that was an especially
bizarre part of her her statement
and you know I said well what about the
comparison to rape which many vegans
make you know well you think someone is
more praiseworthy because they want to
commit crimes whether it's rape or
murder or cannibalism what-have-you and
they either hold back from it or only
engage in it when it's in this sense
facilitated for them by someone else's
unethical behavior because the
fundamental situation here is you're
sitting at a table in the other somebody
else commits an unethical Act which
again could be comforting someone
killing someone so they can engage in
cannibalism or whatever comparison you
want to make and then you are free right
in on their own ethical action you're
taking advantage of your opportunity
taking advantage of their unethical act
and you're considering that to be
morally neutral on your own part or
unnatural vegan says morally
praiseworthy because this is something
you really desire to do but you oppress
that desire more than other it's bizarre
it's completely bizarre to me yeah and
you also made the point that unnatural
vegan says that we shouldn't be shaming
these people why not
why shouldn't you just what what are you
going to be ashamed of in this life if
not cannibalism what are you gonna be
ashamed of in this life if not you know
eating meat and I said to you you you
made a comparison to quitting smoking
but I mean very simply I don't see it as
shameful in the same way you know if
someone is trying to quit smoking and
they fail you know they smoke cigarettes
well ultimately you know nobody quits
smoking in order to save the lives of
the tobacco plants you know ultimately
the tobacco plants aren't suffering here
and so on and there aren't the same
ecological example so what if you what
if you saw a cigarette on the ground
great would it be wrong for it to go in
the landfill even better even better
okay so you're sitting around a table
and somebody does half a line of cocaine
and then they get up and leave I know
they leave half a line of cocaine so are
you gonna take the argument okay well
it's gonna go to a souther wise if you
get up from the table that person laughs
then that half line of cocaine snow is
one of the reasons not to do that is
because you don't want to be the kind of
person who uses cocaine not even once in
a while I want to be the kind of person
who never uses cocaine
who I want to be you know the
opportunity of anyone you're you know
right even when you didn't make the
purchase to the moral choice well you
didn't make the economic choice you
didn't buy it you didn't pay for it but
this still is support lis a statement a
decision about Who I am what kind of
person would be I don't see that in
terms of virtue ethics in the strict
sense I see that as aspirational what
kind of person do I aspire to be I
aspired the kind of person who doesn't
compromise who never uses cocaine etc
and I want to be the kind of person who
never eats meat and it's a totally those
are two totally attainable goals as long
as you don't get into making these kinds
of these kinds of excuses for yourself
yeah alright so that's it eleven minutes
of me saying I I think this video should
have been two minutes long I don't get
it I mean talk about making a mountain
out of a molehill talk about baking cake
without any flour I think that this is
just making a controversy out of
something where you know there's no
controversy to be a